this is Steve a crab fisherman the
basics are simple put some bait in a
pause let it sink sit back
[Music]
and wait for crabs to wander in
Steve knows that most crustaceans aren't
known for their IQ once inside the trap
they haven't got a clue how to get out
the exit is obvious enough to us but
some animals just aren't born with much
in the way of brains but why does the
seafloor here look like a crab graveyard
[Music]
well there's another crab fisherman
living down here in this cave
and it's a much more creative one than
Steve the animal living here shouldn't
really be a problem its closest
relatives are slugs snails and clams
it's a Giant Pacific octopus an animal
with one huge advantage an enormous
brain taking body size into account only
those of birds and mammals are bigger
2/3 of those brain cells or neurons are
actually in its tentacles and it uses
them all to approach the problem of crab
poaching plan a is to smother the prey
with the metal trap in the way that's
not too successful but that huge brain
helps the octopus to get creative and to
think up a dramatically different
strategy
once inside there's an easy meal but
this could be its last breaking in was
easy but the octopus can do something
crabs find impossible
[Music]
a sure sign that an octopus has struck a
trail of empty shells and a frustrated
fisherman what can I say these creative
problem-solving skills set octopus apart
from all other invertebrates
you